hi everyone and welcome to a new pod
today we have Richard from tensor and
Vector if you are in the salana
ecosystem you've probably heard of
tensor it's a meme coin trading platform
that's doing incredibly well in this
video we'll understand his journey from
starting out as a Quant then pivoting to
do a startup why he chose web3 as the
industry he wanted to start up in the
ups and downs the lows and highs
especially when Solana was going through
a bear a lot of grit throughout the bear
to build one of the biggest nft
marketplaces and then once nfts began to
Plate they pivoted to building a meme
coin trading platform which was the
Alpha in the last few months if you're a
Dev you'll understand the engineering
principles at tensor and Vector how they
hire how big is their team and inside
look into the architecture of vector and
tensor and how an X Quant researcher got
into the salana ecosystem and made it
big let's get into the Pod tensor is one
of the biggest nftd marketplaces on
Solana think of it as a social network
for Traders when you download Vector and
you open it up it actually looks very
much like X like Twitter combined with a
wallet user on vector or you know use
signups or people completely new to
crypto a lot of this is for newer and
newer users coming on to crypto right
Market inside or product insight there
this almost s like everything a wallet a
deck trade meme coins if nfts are back
I'm sure you add NS in there so people
can trade nfts um this seems like one
app that you do everything you can
follow each other you can comment you
can copy trade them so that's that's
actually the special part of
it hi everyone and welcome to the only
Dev spad today we have Richard with us
uh he's the CTO at tensor tensor is one
of the biggest nft marketplaces on
Solana and now they've recently pivoted
to another product called Vector which
is a token Launchpad we'll understand
their background how did they start
tensor how did they get into Solana and
all the technical challenges that come
in building one of the biggest nft
marketplaces and now token launch pad on
top of salana so with that Richard can
you give us a brief background about
yourself yeah thanks for having us um on
guys so maybe a brief background about
myself um I'm one of the co-founders and
CTO of tensor um as you mentioned we've
built two products so far tensor and
Vector um I started the company with my
co-founder ilmy three years ago before
that I was actually I I did a bunch of
software engineering internships when I
was in school at big companies like
Shopify Google a startup and then a
trading firm called Citadel and when I
graduated I actually did Quant for about
3 years so actually was more on the
resarch side than software side um long
story short just after Co I had the
startup itch and I wanted to go start my
own company and that's when I left my uh
Quant trading job to actually work on
tensor with my co-founder um so very
non-traditional where I went from
software to research back to software um
but it's all the same thing got it that
makes a l sense U would you mind taking
us through briefly whatever you can talk
about during your Quant experience what
does a Quant they look like yeah Quant
research is basically well specifically
for what I did um there are obviously
different Quant research roles um at
different companies um so Google
actually has their own Quant research
and that's actually more to do with
advertising or things that Google are
working on than what I was doing which
is Quant research for trading um tldr
you are creating models whether they are
statistical or ml based or deep learning
based to try to predict stock returns um
and try to make money off of that and so
what I did was basically um Alpha
research which means you are trying to
extract um signal and convert that to
predictions on where the stock price is
going for thousands of stocks I can't go
into like details of the exact methods
but they're not too um dissimilar from
you know stuff you would read in books
um you know it could be linear models
like linear regression models it could
be ml models it could be deep learning
models how did the I'm kind of curious
about your crypto story from Quant to
crypto that that is specifically nfts
how did that transition happen or and
also during that I remember reading one
of alien's blog post about to tweet
about you know how you guys tried out
many ideas before you came on to tensor
so I'm really curious to hear about the
you know the journey from Quant to nft
yeah it almost sounds ridiculous
where um where you know I was doing
Equity um research U for us equities and
we were actually using quite a lot of
sophisticated techniques and a lot of
data to predict stock returns which is
quite an efficient market um and then
going into nfts um it seems like there's
a disconnect there but actually so what
got me into crypto initially was the
idea that crypto is basically the next
generation's financial system um in
hindsight it almost seems in INE
inevitable I don't think this was as
clear to me when I first started but now
it's like now that I've been in the
trenches for three years it's it's even
more obvious to me that crypto will
become the next financial system um in
in due time um but when I started I I
wanted to be in crypto because I could
be one of the pioneers of the new
Financial system instead of working in
the existing system where all the rules
and basically that the infrastructure
and all that stuff was already set up
and you're just kind of this small Cog
in this large system there's not really
much you can do to innovate because
everything is just so rigid and Legacy
crypto completely changed that for me
and that was the opportunity I was going
after and then the reason why we went
into nfts was we felt that nfts at the
time the asset class was very
underly under financialized compared to
defi defi summer had just just happened
in 2021 there were a lot of interesting
Primitives that people were working on
um obviously pers came around that's you
know uh I guess pers came around during
bit mex's time but pers onchain came
around um serum serum was the thing was
the first onchain order book so there's
a lot of like sophisticated things
happening in D5 but that wasn't
happening with nfts which we felt like
was the next big AET class outside of
just fungible tokens and so we wanted to
basically build all the financialization
Primitives for nfts and be the category
King there got it that makes a lot of
sense and this was when I would assume
there was there was some volume some
interest in uh nfts there were other
people working on similar marketplaces U
so were there other ideas you were
pursuing or it was very obvious that nft
Marketplace is the way to work yeah this
is sort of um insight into how windy the
path of a startup is so we initially
started off with a completely different
idea to an nft Marketplace it was still
in nfts but it was it it was very like
nerd snipy so we wanted to build our
first idea was we wanted to build a
pricing Oracle for nfts which meant if
you're familiar with defi there are
Oracle services like pith like
switchboard um chain link that will
provide you with reliable price feeds um
in order for someone to do liquidations
or for someone to build perss on top
it's like a very fundamental piece of
Defi and we felt like if nft
financialization was going to be a thing
the Oracle was going to be a core
component of it and we want to win that
first and so we spent about a month
building this Oracle for nft pricing and
we tried to sell it to a bunch of these
protocols that were doing lending some
of them were doing um fractionalization
and so they all needed this Oracle for
nfts and we came to realization that you
know after a month and a bit only one
protocol was willing to pay us money and
the other protocol the other protocols
were so very early on like they hadn't
found product Market fit
and we realize okay this is
not the timing isn't there yet and this
is actually a recurring theme that you
hear across startups is like having the
right idea is not sufficient you also
need to have the right timing and we
just didn't have the right timing for
building this Oracle there just wasn't
enough demand for it and ultimately we
quickly we pivoted away from that and
decided hey given that we've dealt we've
worked with nfts and nft data um for for
a month or two why don't we try to Pivot
into something that we can leverage our
skills and the stuff that we've built um
into a new product and so that's when we
decided to build an nft aggregator and
ultimately an nft
Marketplace that makes a lot sense and
what are the technical challenges in
building something like this is it it
like fairly simple once the contract is
out it's out and you know you just have
to index the I guess other marketplaces
and yourself and make sure people can
buy and sell is it a lot of front
challenges is it one smart contract is
it many smart contracts initially we
built an nft aggregator and that's
important
because um with any Marketplace there's
sort of this problem called the codar
problem where a Marketplace has two
sides you have the the buyers or I guess
the demand side people who are showing
up and buying nfts and then you have the
people who are listing nfts to sell and
that that's the supply side and
generally it's more difficult to
bootstrap the side like you need to
convince people to list their nfts on
your completely new Marketplace when
there are no buyers and vice versa
people are not going to show up if there
are no nfts to buy and the cold star
problem is how do you like how do you
get past the initial critical mass that
you need in order to have a fully like a
useful Marketplace and every Marketplace
company in the past have faced this like
eBay um Airbnb Uber they've all faced
this problem and one way to actually
solve it is you ignore one side or you
you try to like um hack one side so in
this case we hack the supply side by
just being an aggregator and so we just
aggregated all these existing
marketplaces Supply or nfts into one
interface and we just um tried to build
up the demand
side the challenge with that is at the
time there were three four marketplaces
that had nfts and we have to aggregate
all of them and The Untold Truth about
blockchains especially on salana is that
the data is very messy where all these
marketplaces they have their
own um account format so I guess for
those who may not be familiar on salana
data is stored into these accounts and
you actually have to manually parse them
bite forbite and all these marketplaces
have different bite format and they
generally don't publish what that is so
you have to reverse engineer them um in
order to get historical data you
basically have to parse all of their
historical transactions and again
they're all in arbitrary bite format and
so you have to again reverse engineer
them what's even worse this is the third
thing that's a killer is all of these
marketplaces at any time can change
their format um historically and because
everything lives permanently on the
blockchain you have to deal with these
historical artifacts and so that's you
know it's it's not hard but it's just
very annoying to deal with it it's like
trying to parse an unknown wire format
um that can change at any point in time
I also remember during the you know in
during the hay days of nfts if I may say
that uh theot some some Marketplace I
remember this Twitter thread where
people are talking about you know how uh
one per One nft Marketplace would also
put their account stage behind an API
key so that even if you even if a user
wanted to for example from an aggregator
if you wanted to you know execute a sell
or a buy you can't do that without and
the API without the AP key or whatever
their cosigner signing it right so how
did you guys like deal with it I think
we are told in this by being in crypto
that everything what's nice about it is
everything is permissionless you can
compose on top of anything without
talking to
someone
but like yes with an AS that if a
protocol or I guess in this case a
platform wants to decide who gets to use
their Marketplace who gets to aggregate
on top of them they can put in things
like you mentioned the cosigner um that
requires you going through their API and
they can decide who to give an API key
to and who who not um without getting
into like two specifics we actually ran
into this issue with the biggest
Marketplace at the time um you know they
basically felt threatened that we might
take away market share and so they
actually used this um strategically
against you know us from aggregating
their
Marketplace um and T is like there's no
real good way around it um basically
what what it came down to is when that
happened to us when they said like hey
you know we're no longer giving you an
API key you can no longer aggregate
us um we had to move fast and try to get
to critical mass at with our own
liquidity before we were completely
wiped out because users couldn't
directly buy nfts off of this
Marketplace on our website um so that
was actually probably the the darkest
time when we were building the nft
marketplace when you know this
Marketplace cut off our access and we
had basically a timer like essentially
Runway where we had to figure out how do
we get enough liquidity on our own
Marketplace or else people will stop
coming people will stop using our
aggregator and we ultimately die um and
we we ultimately figured out you know a
way to quickly gain momentum which are
sort of our points in season program and
you know we were able to get past that
critical mass to survive you mentioned
it was the darkest times right I'm kind
of curious to know what the you know how
how the team was like what was the
mindset of the team during that and not
just the founders but also the early
engineer you know the early founding
team like what was going through your
minds and how are you like quickly
adapting to changes the reason I'm
asking this is to kind of you know get a
peek into the culture and how actually
it is in the fenes for days this is
actually an important
lesson there's a lesson to be learned
here which is early on before product
Market fit you basically don't you
shouldn't be hiring you shouldn't need
to scare your team there only very few
exceptions to that
rule um but to answer your question it
was basically just me and my co-founder
literally there's there was no one else
we were building the product just us two
we didn't hire anyone we were running
off of of um
hackathon prize money to pay for AWS
bills and that was it right um it wasn't
until after we got to like 10% market
share and we started seeing a bit of
momentum when we made our first hire and
that hire was a be person um so we
actually didn't have to deal with the
problem of like having to Pivot multiple
times or having to like on being in this
dark time and having a bunch of uh
employees or contributors on our team
that we had to also you know talk to and
make sure that they're okay um so the
important Yeah so basically the
important lesson here is don't hire
until you see some inkling of product
Market fit and you need to hire people
because you're just completely slammed
with too many responsibilities makes
sense um very cool so initially you
mentioned you are an aggregator U now
you're uh marketpl in itself so just to
understand here U is there just one
contract that you had to write once
deploy it and you know good to go audit
it once and then deploy it and
everything else is just front end
challenges or I don't know indexes that
you're building um I remember you guys
introduced something for shorting nfts I
forgot the name uh is eventually removed
um I forgot the name uh where you could
yeah there you go price locks um I would
assume that's another smart contract to
deploy but is that so how often are you
guys deploying smart contracts and what
are the engineers working on other than
that smart contracts one thing you
realize is I think in the last
generation basically in defi
summer the smart contract was probably
the bulk of of what people were what
devs were building and teams were
building and then the front end was a
very thin layer that was s like early
defi where people were like okay um most
of the hard hard hard part of it is like
figuring out what the amm mechanic is or
figuring out how to build serum an
onchain order book and then you have a
very thin front end um for nft
marketplaces is actually the complete
opposite where the smart contract is
actually very simple it it's building an
like a Marketplace is like you literally
just deposit the nft um and then you
have a price attached to it and someone
can buy that nft and you just make sure
that the price that you're paying
matches what they listed it for and then
you you know send the nft to the other
person that's a very simple contract
there's no complicated math um there's
no like you know risk analysis unlike
you know a lending protocol or a purose
protocol the hard part is actually the
the data pipelines and ingesting in our
case every single nft transaction that
has ever occurred on salana since the
beginning of time tracking all the
existing listings on all of these other
Marketplace contracts that's actually
pretty non-trivial if you don't know um
the account formats of all the these
marketplaces and you also have to have
historical data so people can look up
like hey what was the sale history of
this nft all of that stuff the data the
data part was actually the hardest and
the most timec consuming part um you
just have to build the stuff one to
scale to the throughput of salana so if
there's thousands of transactions coming
in on chain you still have to go through
all of them pick up the ones that are
nft related and then discard the rest
and then the front end of course we had
a pretty sophisticated front end because
we were building an nft Marketplace for
pros which meant we had to have a live
feed of every transaction that was
coming in we had to make our listings
update in real time it's not hard but it
just requires a bit of finesse and
requires you know very like a lot of
attention to detail and then we also
have like a trading view historical
price chart and of course like the data
pipeline that goes into it is quite
annoying to get right um so like TDR is
we spent probably 80% 90% of our
engineering time building the web 2
stuff which is the front end the backend
data pipelines and we spent maybe 10% of
the time writing the smart contract
interesting and I would assume there's
not a lot of development needed intenser
anymore um the product is there and you
know unless you're introducing a new
feature on a day-to-day an engineer
doesn't have to really look at anything
other than maintenance this is true for
the nftd marketplace but not for the
reasons of like hey there's not much we
can do here there's actually quite a ton
we can do with
nfts but as you alluded to earlier we we
started working on a second product
because we pivoted we decided we have to
Pivot out of the nft market about 9
months ago we felt that the nft market
was basically stagnating there was a
very Grim outlook on whether or not
it'll come back and it was entirely out
of
control like yes we could basically
spend 100% of our time and really think
like how do we grow this Market how do
we like bring back the excitement to the
nft mark uh to to the nft market that's
like a play in task it's like saying
like how do we make people around the
world trade more crypto it's something
that is very like very much out of the
control of a single startup and so we
decided like okay let's not waste any
more time on a market that is completely
out of our control let's pivot into a
new product in a market that is 10x 100
times bigger and that's when we decide
to build Vector um which is actually a
uh a token trading app um
so at tldr at the time we we saw that
Meme coins were picking up all the
attention from our existing user base of
nft Traders they were essentially they
stopped trading nfts and just started
trading mcoins and we were like hey we
have you know half a million a million
monthly active users they all stopped
doing this one thing which is trading
nfts and now they're trading me coins
can we leverage our distribution and
build something interesting in in the
space of meme coins and tokens and so
that's when we decided to work on Vector
so you started N9 months ago very
interesting um I guess you launched very
recently three months ago is is that
right got it um so would love to you
said it's it's not oh I thought it's a
token launch but you're saying it's a
token trading platform so I'm assuming
people can swap tokens buy them um
launch them um so would love to know
again the same thing uh how much of it
is smart contract logic I would assume
there's more than nft Marketplace here
and and there is also a mobile app that
I saw so you know basically how much
engineering time is going into front end
mobile app back end and smart contracts
yeah it's even more asymmetric in terms
of the amount of time we spend on web 2
stuff like front end backend apis versus
smart contract smart
contracts until recently it's basically
zero and the reason is Vector is really
a front-end aggregator on top of all of
the dexes
the launchpads for example pump
fun um and then Bridges which we're
adding in right now it's basically a
front end that wraps it all into a nice
mobile form factor so that anyone can
ape mem points um directly from their
phone um with their friends that's
that's the whole premise is you can
trade mem coins socially with your
friends on this
app um what it is maybe just to give
your audience a bit of insight think of
it as a social network for Traders when
you download
Vector um and you open it up it actually
looks very much like X like Twitter
combined with a
wallet so it's a wallet in that you can
do the same trades you can trade any
token on all the chains that we support
um instantly so any token on salana that
gets minted you can trade it on Vector
any tokens that get minted on ethereum
on base on abstract which we just added
and eventually all of the other major
chains you can trade that directly in
Vector without having to you know go to
a website connect your metam Mas or
connect your Phantom and you know click
a button that's assigned transaction
instead everything happens within the
the mobile app and then the social part
is you can actually share these trades
with other people that follow you or
just people in general on the app in a
public timeline that's sort of the key
Insight we came to which is we can we
can build a nice mobile trading app for
tokens and for mean points but what are
people actually doing behind the scenes
once they make these me Point trades
they're sharing it with their friends
they're sharing it on Twitter they're
sharing it in telegram group chats
they're sharing it in Discord and we
want to basically package all of this
social activity into a single app that's
very interesting that sounds like a
social media app and like can people
message each other follow each other
follow their trades things like these
you can follow each other you can
subscribe to each other so you get push
notifications directly to your your
phone as soon as someone makes a
trade um you can comment on their trades
and engage so you can like like or
dislike their their trade um you can
copy trade them so that's that's
actually the special part of it is when
you see your friend trade you might want
to like jump in and join the fund and
buy the same token that they just bought
um but there isn't messaging right now
um we feel like we we didn't want to get
in the game of competing with all these
great messaging apps like telegram or
scored they've spent years and years
making an awesome chat experience and we
don't want to compete directly with that
um I think eventually we'll have group
chats eventually we will have live chat
and eventually we'll have onetoone
messaging um but that's maybe a bit
further down the road this almost sounds
like everything a wallet a deck trade
meme coins if nfts are back I'm sure you
add nfts in there so people can trade
nfts um it seems like one app that can
you know do everything um I would love
to know about private Key Management
here since people can copy trades while
they're sleeping I'm assuming you guys
are having access to the private key in
some form of fashion is that right we do
not have access to the private key maybe
I'll give you some insights to listeners
um in crypto the previous generation of
uh mobile wallets and mobile trading
apps actually I wouldn't even say mobile
trading apps because I would say you we
are the first major crypto trading app
that's built like a trading app versus
built like a wallet and we also talk on
the wallet part most mobile wallets of
the previous generation they ask you to
write down a seed phrase and they'll
keep the private key in local storage
that lets you sign transactions within
the app and then it you know it stores a
private key in local storage and then in
theory like the app itself can access it
or they shouldn't access it and
everything is local and so even if
there's a hack uh on the wallet's API
servers your private key isn't exposed
downside of course is you have to write
down a seed phrase you know it could be
12 to 24 words and a lot of people who
are not Crypton native like they don't
know they don't really know what to do
with it they might write their seed
phrase in like uh a notepad that or like
a online document and they accidentally
share that and they leak their seed
phrase and all their money gets trained
we didn't like that experience so we
actually looked into a lot of embedded
wallet Solutions these are effectively
non-custodial
Frameworks or services that are offered
by these companies these Services
basically lets you log in with Anil
email or OA have a private key generated
behind the scenes on your local device
and all that being securely stored so in
our case we use something called privy
they use something called um Shamir
secret sharing SSS to do all this fancy
cryptography so that the private key is
never exposed to us nor privy private
key is still entirely local to device
when it does signing and it's very very
difficult if not impossible to
compromise that so that's what we use
you log in with an email on vector or
you log in with Twitter or you log in
with Google or you log in with Apple ID
um and a private key gets generated for
you and you are in control of that
private key we can't access it privy
can't access it only you can access it
go it and as as long as I have access to
my email um I have access to the private
key correct and then you can of course
add like stuff like MFA like two Factor
authentication um you can even go
further and self uh um add in recovery
mode which makes it even more difficult
for any potential compromises to get to
your key and at that point you're
effectively like you effectively have
like like full self custody if not even
stronger guarantees than just writing
down your seed phrase in like a notepad
or something got it very cool and and
you're saying py doesn't let you let you
guys even initiate transactions the user
has to initiate the transaction since
they're signing it on their local device
correct everything has to be user
initiated on vector I'm kind of curious
to know you know how many of the users
on vector or you know new signups or
people who are completely new to crypto
because whatever you just said about you
know the packaging this entire
experience
together feels like a lot of this is for
newer and newer users coming on to
crypto right so I'm curious to know what
that split looks like or is there any
like Market insert or product insert
there we very intentionally made it so
onboarding was as seamless as possible
because our ambition is to reach
eventually a million if not a billion
people if not a couple billion people
and become a Facebook size company right
where every single person in the world
can use vector and the only way to do
that is not have that friction High
friction crypto native onboarding
experience where you're writing down a
seed phrase that being said as of right
now most of our users are still crypto
native and that's because we're
leveraging our existing distribution
from our Marketplace getting all of
those users onto Vector first they tend
to be higher volume they tend to have
higher um spending habits right because
they're used to spending thousands and
thousands of dollars on nfts now you're
just spending thousands and thousands of
dollars on mem coins um and then we'll
we'll basically move out in layers if
you think of an onion like this the core
is basically our Crypton native uh user
base and then we want to move um out
outwards to adjacent layers so the next
set of users you might go to are people
who are on centralized exchange maybe
they've never been on chain but they've
used a coinbase before or binance and
they want to start trading mean coins on
chain and so we we'll get those on board
and it's very easy because it's still
email login Google off they don't have
to write down any seat phrase and after
those set of users you might go onto um
people that have maybe never touched
crypto before on a centralized exchange
but maybe they've shaded stocks um and
they can easily on board to Vector
because it's again it's just an email
login so that's how we're thinking about
expanding our user base initially from a
core of Crypton native users since
you're oh since you're aggregating
things from everywhere uh what What's
your you already monetize or what's your
plan of monetizing eventually um you
don't have any know any of the finance
there only yourself yep so the app takes
um a fee on top
it is a 1% fee which means that every
time um you do you know if you swap $100
from salana to I don't know
fcoin um one $1 of that goes to um
vector and then the rest of the $100 get
swapped on shade um it one thing that's
to note here is 1% seems high right most
trading apps or actually most trading
exchanges traditionally charge a much
smaller percent um for example binance I
think has their their highest I guess
the lowest tier like the default tier is
25 bips or 0.25% coinbase's Pro offering
charges 0.5% coinbase's retail offering
is actually different it actually
charges 2.5% so it's nearly five times
as large as a pro offering and the
reason is retail is less sensitive to
fees and if you can provide value on the
frontend by providing interesting
features that you can't get anywhere
else in our case we provide social
features where you can share your trades
you can copy trade people all of that is
stuff people value on top of the utility
of just trading and that's why 1% is
actually pretty reasonable because you
get to share your trades with other
people you get to have other people
follow you and if they copy trade your
trades you actually earn a part of their
fees um that's why people are willing to
pay 1% to use Vector whereas if you're
just building a simple front end that
connects to a DEX no way you're charging
1% okay I have a very weird question I'm
unsure if you thought through this and
other people who use privy but U privy
seems like a mildly centralized company
even though they don't host your private
key but what if the government tells
them to block uh signing in in the
future or something like that do people
really own their crypto or is this
something that's been thought through uh
when because a lot of people are using
privy like every other company we've
talked to Jupiter we talk to they're
using privy for ap. pro which is the new
product U so is there something that can
happen if the government wants to block
in Vector we let people export the
private key for people who know what
they're doing they can always export
their private key as soon as they log in
they could again write it down put it
into like a secure place um and then
they'll always have access to their
funds privy the way that so anytime you
have something that connects to
something web to um yes there is always
that tail risk of censorship um if if
the government really want to go to
Apple or you know whatever and say shut
down your servers they can always do
that and you lose access to everything
they could in theory go to privy their
us company and say like shut down
everything don't let anyone access the
crypto anymore um but we thought thought
through this carefully and we there's
always an escape hatch in Vector which
is the exporting the private key yeah
and also you have this uh with threshold
you have this two out of three
combination right like as long as you
have two shars of the key you should
still be good so the real scary scenario
is like uh the government goes after
like all three entities then you're kind
of
like uh screwed but yeah LS of that are
fairly low Rich I'm kind of curious so
from from you know starting tensor as
like you know
uh you like a so kind of solo team you
and the co-founder just a Founder only
team and you know growing it out into a
it it didn't tenser into a very
Marketplace and then pivoting to Vector
it's been quite a journey right I'm
curious to uh learn more about how has
the team shaped up how you guys
approached you know building up a team
that reflects how you guys are right so
I'm curious to know what the culture at
tensor is and how you guys built the
team yep maybe I'll talk on the culture
part and then maybe the hiring part so
the culture at tensor
all startups I would say are more
fast-paced in general and more intense
than a big company so if you compare you
know any seed stage series a startup and
their culture it's any successful seed
stage and series a a startup to the
culture of maybe like a company like
Google or
Microsoft for sure you'll notice a
difference where startups you are live
or die every single day you have to move
fast or else you just the company goes
out of business um that's a case yes for
tensor but I would even say we take that
a step further where I would say our
culture is even more
intense we feel
like we want to work with the best
people the best technical Talent the
best marketing Talent go to market
Talent the best in class for all of the
functions that we need at
tensor and we want to drive that by
having a high performance
culture which means
um you know everything is Guided by are
you outputting results and if you are
then you'll be rewarded greatly you know
in comp and in in responsibilities and
if you're not then maybe there's you
know a different role for you or maybe
it's not going to work out and we make
that very clear at the beginning of all
of our hiring processes where yes we
know that sensor is very intense it's
not for everyone but if you're a high
achiever this might be the place for you
to really
shine and and what that means what that
implies for a hiring process is we tend
to be more
lean um and try to work with a a smaller
team versus a larger team but the
smaller team has a higher density of
talent and higher density of
Independence and so actually like for
for a company of of our that's
generating as much revenue as we are
currently from fees you know you might
say like hey you should start hiring you
know 50 you know 70 Engineers given that
you have this much runway but we're the
complete opposite where we don't want to
become a large slow moving organization
and have a bunch of like overhead
because you have to manage 50 70
Engineers um in fact we want everyone
all
Engineers to basically run independently
to feel like they don't need to be
managed to feel that they have a ton of
autonomy in what they can do
um and keep that team small so that we
can run as fast as possible and pivot if
we need to Pivot at pivot uh you know a
slightly New Direction in the product or
a slightly new tech that we need to
build out without having to go through a
bunch of organization that's very cool
how how big is your engineering team
right now we currently have 14
full-timers um we actually grew from 10
to 14 within the last month and that's
that's because we saw quite positive
momentum from Vector that we felt like
we needed to scale a bit faster just to
make sure that we're ready we're ready
to continue scaling vector and dealing
with all of this growth so we're about
we're 14 full-time
engineers and are you guys hiding for
more
RS we are doing it opportunistically so
you actually see on our job posting
board that there there is no engineer
role and that's because we are
opportunistically hiring folks that we
either know through our Network or we've
heard of that is really great and we
reach out to them opportunist Jak do you
have anything else yeah so what what
does the makeup of the you know the 14
member team look like so again like
going from a tensor used to be like you
know a website under front and heavy
trading product to Vector a mobile app
so I
also I would say maybe I'm wrong here
but Vector is a much much more uh social
experience it's I would say it's much
more similar to building Instagram or
Tik Tok versus uh you know building
a building tensor right
so how did
you I'm curious to know what the how the
team transitioned or how did you guys
kind of like bring through the changing
mindset I don't think it's too difficult
I think they're both ultimately still
consumer
products you still have
to I think the process of building the
product is more important than like the
domain of the product like in theory we
I mean hypothetically let's say we
decided to just build a social media app
no crypto involved I think we can do a
pretty good job at it and that's because
it's a process of fast iteration trying
out experiments getting feedback from
users and having that type feedback loop
that makes building that that makes a
team successful in building a consumer
product um and I would say the process
that we applied when building the nft
marketplace is a is very similar
obviously we've learned a lot since then
and so we we have we're doing stuff
slightly differently that's improved but
it's it's very similar to how we're
building Vector where there's constant
um back and forth between our users
between internally where we thinking of
like okay what do we build next based on
what our users have given feedback on um
and I think the crypto component
obviously there's there's crypto in the
nft marketplace there's crypto in Vector
um that definitely helps if you have
domain expertise and because we know
salana so deeply now it just lets us
move faster on building out the trading
features of this um of vector okay I I
mean so if I were to summarize this the
the principal reason why you guys are so
successful at you know building
something like the people want is one
Relentless focus on
execution ship as quickly as possible
and
also very very tight feedback loop into
the product right so so that your
quicker iteration knowing what works
exactly maybe the one difference between
building the nft marketplace which was
for the most part like a utility product
versus building Vector which leans more
heavily into social and basically
entertainment is that social and
entertainment figuring out what to build
is actually pretty difficult because
it's not as clear-cut as building more
utility we just know that you know what
Traders want is more advanced order
types they want limit orders they want
amm pools for nfts they want more
complicated filtering they want to be
able to see you know this stat and that
stat and this chart and this visual
visualization but for
social it is more the opposite where
less doing less is actually better for
the product you don't want to make it
too complicated we have 15 different
things going on and someone who signs up
to Vector for the first time doesn't
know where to focus their attention on
um and you'll see this with like all
major social media apps except maybe for
Faceook Facebook where Instagram it's
very simple right it's literally just a
single feed and then you can post photos
and like photos that's the that's 90% of
what people do on the app same thing
with Tik Tok 90% of the time you are
watching videos just scrolling and
liking videos and maybe commenting so
one thing common the lowest the common
denominator amongst all of these apps
that you mentioned is that they are
incredibly sticky right they have
extremely high recall PE people keep
coming back so
I compared to something like you know
trade Vector people still do trade I
think the stickiness there is people
making money but if the markets and so
you have two things right one you have a
market structure where not everyone of
course can make money because in order
for some lot of people want to have that
100x pay off there's probably a few who
are on that as exit liquidities so I'm C
would love to to know how you are
thinking about you know this trade-off
between the stickiness that is required
for a social app because you want to
have like extremely high attention
versus a trading app where you know
people are there because they want to
make money our advisor and maybe some of
you guys know him Nikita beer um he he's
a big personality on Twitter he's known
for creating like ultrav viral social
apps that go from like zero to like a
few million users in like 10 days he
basically told he's actually like you
know somewhat adjacent to crypto like he
he keeps up with the industry and he
keeps up with like all of these meme
coins and stuff and he basically said
that trading in his opinion is 51%
flexing and 49% profit he argues that
people actually like trading meme coins
and sharing their trades more because
they're they want to flex any massive
gain where they want to like share lost
porn if they lose a ton of money then
the ACT ual profit itself that being
said like obviously it's great to have
both it's great to have it's great to
flex and great to make a ton of money
but I would say one thing that we
captured well with Vector you might
potentially lose money and that sucks
but at least you have the social
component that you can still hold on to
and and you know Flex all these cool
trades that you've made and in a way
you're effectively paying you might be
losing you know a bit of profit um
because you know maybe you're not as
good of a Trader as some other folks but
at the very least you still get value
out of the entertainment from the social
aspect of it if if plays right you know
this sounds kind if you know if there's
one mainstream application it might be
this so I'm curious to see how it plays
out in the upcoming months um with that
I have one last question what does your
day-to-day look like Rich are you still
coding are you reviewing code uh are you
still architecting yeah it's it's
drastically changed in the last couple
of months basically when we went from uh
maybe like four five six Engineers to 10
to
14 um and I think like the company is at
a point where my time is is no longer
best spent writing code all day um I
still do write code like there there are
a few things that I might fix here and
there that I noticed in the code base um
I definitely review code not all not
every PR because there's like 14 people
training out code every day and there's
no way I could do 14 PR like 14
full-time Engineers worth of PR reviews
every single day but you know it's very
important for a CTO for anyone who is
you know in management at a company to
still be in the weeds in the details
know exactly what's going on roughly in
the code base and I would say I have a
pretty good understanding of the code
base overall like I could literally jump
in and start writing code but my time
isn't best spent there um at this point
I'm I'm context switching between you
know doing these calls um doing product
planning doing higher level strategic
planning with my co-founder that it's
just hard for me to get heads down time
to turn out like code at an effective
speed um and so to answer your question
I would say most of my time is spend
planning and
architecting making sure that all the
difficult problems on the engineering
and product side I can be there and
solve them as as fast as possible I am
essentially the the firefighter on the
product side if if there's uncertainty
around an implementation around a
product feature then I'm there to put
out the fire thank you so much for
joining us Richard this was this was
fantastic you know listen listening to
the actual stories From The Trenches
people only see see you know the other
side of the chart you know the what
actually goes on behind the scenes to
keep it running it's a ton of sleepless
nights and I'm pretty sure lots of
coffee and Dread bull but thank you so
much for building such a great product
and thank you so much for joining us on
this podcast